0.7
===

*Released: 2023/01/16*

This release focuses on the final big "feature delta" we had versus other
complete servers, and includes a lot of the missing community features that
we needed for an initial open launch of takahe.social.

If you're curious on the reasons *not* to use Takahē yet, see what's left
to implement on our :doc:`/features` page, and our federation and client
compatibility list on our :doc:`/interoperability` page.

Major features:

* Blocking and Muting

  * Timed mutes are supported but only via client apps for now

* Further Mastodon Client API support

  * Announcements, profile editing, viewing followers, and some more bugfixes

* Emoji admin page
* Server announcements system
* Notifications to admins when new identities are created
* Emails to moderators when a new report comes in
* Shared inbox delivery to remote servers

Other fixes and improvements include:

* Lightbox for viewing images (rather than a full redirect!)
* Content Warnings of the same type will now all expand together
* Client compatibility improvements (especially for Elk, Ivory and Tusky)
* Preliminary light theme for the interface
* Remote server software tracking and down detection
* HTML formatted emails along with plain text versions
* Better display of videos on remote posts (no local upload yet)
* Unfollowing users clears them from your timeline (as does blocking)
* RSS feeds now support multiple images on a single post
* Timeline rendering performance improvements
* Federation compatibility improvements
* Automatic trimming of old FanOut, InboxMessage, and other data

If you'd like to help with code, design, policy or other areas, see
:doc:`/contributing` to see how to get in touch.

You can download images from `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/r/jointakahe/takahe>`_,
or use the image name ``jointakahe/takahe:0.7``.


Upgrade Notes
-------------

Migrations
~~~~~~~~~~

There are new database migrations; they are backwards-compatible, so please
apply them before restarting your webservers and stator processes.


Snowflake IDs and Ordering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As of this release, we have moved Post, Identity, Follow, and several other
objects to have "snowflake IDs" - ones that include the timestamp as part of
the ID, such as ``137587476347213336``. These IDs also have implicit ordering
as a result.

We've also changed all timelines to be ordered by when the post was
*received* rather than *initially created*; if another server takes a while to
send Takahē the post, it will now appear at the top of the timeline when it
arrives. The date on a post will be its *original publish* date, so if other
servers are a bit slow you may see the timestamps not be entirely in order.
This is fine, and also the way Mastodon behaves.

You should not notice any major side-effects apart from longer IDs in URLs.
After the inital upgrade, you may notice a couple of old posts at the top of
the Home timeline; this is due to a switch in handling, and is a one-time bug
that will go away as more posts come in and build the timeline further.
